<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="environments">
  <title>Environments</title>
  <body>
      <p>When the framework is started, it receives the name of the
      active <keyword>Environment</keyword> from outside
      world. Typical Environments would be "development", "testing" or
      "production". You may configure any number of environments, but
      only one of them is used during execution:</p>
      <codeblock class="php"><![CDATA[

/* Typical framework initialization code. Your pub/index.php looks
like this, for example*/

require 'agavi/agavi.php';
require '../app/config.php';

// Bootstrap Agavi in the "development" Environment
Agavi::bootstrap('development');

]]></codeblock>
      <p>Environments allow for extremely fine-grained settings for
      each machine (server or workstation) and situation your application encounters. The
      various Environments may have different database configurations,
      logging settings and levels, debug settings and even filters or
      factories. Any aspect of Agavi configuration can be bound to a
      specific Environment. Each developer in a team may have his own
      Environments for development and testing, with his or her own database
      settings, tools etc which eliminates the need for people constantly
      having to change their settings, accidentally committing changed
      files to source code repositories or missing changes because
      configuration files were masked or set to ignore so that remote
      changes by other developers don't break locally unique
      settings.</p>
      
      <p>Environments add a dimension to Agavi configuration,
      preventing conflicts and eliminating the need to modify
      code.</p>

      <p>
  Here's an example of Agavi configuration. It is written in the
  database connection description sublanguage. Two
  configurations are specified, one for a developer called David
  and the other for his cat Mudkips:
      </p>
      <codeblock class="php"><![CDATA[
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<configurations xmlns="http://agavi.org/agavi/1.0/config">
  <configuration environment="development-joe">
   <databases default="project">
    <database name="project" class="AgaviPdoDatabase">
     <parameter name="dsn">mysql:host=db.dev.office;dbname=david_dev</parameter>
     <parameter name="username">david</parameter>
     <parameter name="password">Sa3q@sAf</parameter>
    </database>
   </databases>
  </configuration>  

  <configuration environment="development-mudkips">
   <databases default="project">
    <database name="project" class="AgaviPdoDatabase">
     <parameter name="dsn">mysql:host=localhost;dbname=MEOW</parameter>
     <parameter name="username">mudkips</parameter>
     <parameter name="password">OMNOMNOM</parameter>
    </database>
   </databases>
  </configuration>  
</configurations>]]>
      </codeblock>
      <p>Subsequently, the application that David and Mudkips are
      developing would attempt to access a named database connection
      called "project", and Agavi will return a database object that's
      configured according to the Environment (that is, developer
      workstation) in which it's being executed.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
