<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="execution-flow">
  <title>Global Execution Flow</title>
  <body>
      <p>If you call an URL that is handled by
      <filepath>pub/index.php</filepath>, Agavi will bootstrap the
      framework with the specified (or default) Environment and then
      create an instance of the specified (or default) Context (this
      instantiation sets up all of the core components of the
      framework). Finally, the request is dispatched from the
      Context's Controller instance.</p>

      <note type="tip"><keyword>Dispatching</keyword> is the
      processing of the request necessary to produce a response. In
      Agavi, it means executing one or more Actions, or failing with
      an error.</note>

      <p>First, the Controller needs to identify the <keyword>initial
      Action</keyword> to be called. If Routing is enabled, the
      Controller asks it to analyze the request URL and other possible
      conditions to answer that question. This maps URLs, HTTP
      headers, phase of the moon etc to a specific feature of your
      application.</p>

      <p>The Routing returns a special Agavi object called the
      <xref href="execution-containers.dita"><keyword>Execution Container</keyword></xref> which is preloaded with
      the Action that needs to be executed. This container serves as
      an isolated environment in which the Action and its chosen View
      would be executed.</p>

      <p>The Controller now creates a filter chain, which is preloaded
      with filters that are specified in the global filter
      configuration. Agavi filter chains are designed to consume an
      Execution Container, process it sequentially and yield a
      response. A filter chain is essentially a list of plugins; each
      plugin take an Execution Container, do something with it and
      pass it on to the next filter.</p>

      <p>At the end of the global filter chain is the dispatch
      filter. It commands the Execution Container to
      execute the Action and returns its response, which is then sent
      to the user's browser. </p>
      
      <p>Execution of the initial Action is the point of entry into
      your application. Many things happen inside the Execution
      Container, and the rest of the execution flow is documented in <xref href="execution-containers.dita">its own chapter</xref></p>
  </body>
</topic>
