<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating-agavi-project">
  <title>Creating an Agavi Project</title>
  <body>
    <p>Once Agavi is installed on your system, you can begin using the project configuration system
      to manage your projects. This system can be accessed using the <cmdname>agavi</cmdname> shell
      script.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Creating an Empty Agavi Application</title>
      <p>This means that you are ready to create the structure for your new blog application,
        affectionately called "Bloggie" (feel free to give it a less cuddly name if you can't stand
        it; the developers recommend "Incredible Scorpion-Powered Blog Application of Doom").</p>
      <p>To create a project, first create a directory in your webservers document root directory
        where the application will reside. For the tutorial we'll assume that you're using a server
        at localhost and the application directory is named "bloggie". So, if your webservers
        document root is located at <filepath>/srv/www</filepath>, create the directory <filepath
          >/srv/www/bloggie</filepath>, if you're using windows and the document root is at
          <filepath>C:\xampp\</filepath> create <filepath>C:\xampp\bloggie</filepath>. Then change
        to that newly created directory and invoke <cmdname>agavi project-wizard</cmdname>. Some of
        the prompts may seem confusing at first—don't worry, you will have a chance to explore their
        meaning in more depth after your project is created. For the time being only provide a name
        for the project, a prefix to be used for all project specific classes and just leave the
        defaults for the rest, so press enter when those prompts appear.</p>
      <screen>
www$ <userinput>mkdir bloggie</userinput>
www$ <userinput>cd bloggie</userinput>
bloggie$ <userinput>agavi project-wizard</userinput>

Project base directory [/srv/applications/bloggie]:

Project name [New Agavi Project]: <userinput>Bloggie</userinput>
Project prefix (used, for example, in the project base action) [Bloggiedemo]: <userinput>Blog</userinput>
Default template extension [php]:

Name of the environment to bootstrap in dispatcher scripts [development]:

Should an Apache .htaccess file with rewrite rules be generated (y/n) [n]?

Space-separated list of modules to create for Bloggie [Default]:

Space-separated list of actions to create for Default:

Module for default system action [Default]:

Action for default system action [Index]:

Space-separated list of views to create for Index [Success]:

Module for error_404 system action [Default]: 

Module for unavailable system action [Default]:

Module for module_disabled system action [Default]:

Module for secure system action [Default]:

Module for login system action [Default]:

bloggie$
</screen>
      <p>Congratulations! You have created a brand new Agavi application. Point your favorite
        browser to http://localhost/bloggie/pub/ and you should be greeted by the agavi welcome
        page.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</topic>
