<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="installing-agavi">
  <title>Installing Agavi</title>

  <body>
    <p>Agavi can be installed in several ways. The recommended way is to use
    PEAR, as it performs a complete setup for your system.</p>

    <p>If you wish, you can install Agavi (and the Phing package on which the
    project configuration system depends) manually. A Subversion repository is
    also available. For full details on installation using these methods,
    please see (manual).</p>

    <section>
      <title>From PEAR</title>
      Installation with PEAR is relatively simple. Discover the
    Agavi PEAR channel and then install Agavi using the PEAR command
    line interface:
	<screen>$ <userinput>pear channel-discover pear.agavi.org</userinput>

Adding Channel "pear.agavi.org" succeeded
Discovery of channel "pear.agavi.org" succeeded

$ <userinput>pear install -a agavi/agavi</userinput>.
	</screen> 

	<p>
	  <note type="tip">Since Agavi 1.0.0 is still in a beta state,
	    you may have to set your PEAR preferred package state to
	    beta before installing Agavi:
	    <screen>
$ <userinput>pear config-set preferred_state  beta</userinput>
	    </screen>
	  </note>
	</p>
    </section>
      
    <section><title>Testing your installation</title><p>A properly deployed
    Agavi installation enables the Agavi project configuration script,
    <cmdname>agavi</cmdname>. You should test that the installation worked
    correctly by executing <userinput>agavi</userinput> from the command line.
    This should provide some basic information about your current
    environment:</p>
      <p>
	<screen>
$ <userinput>agavi</userinput>
     Agavi &gt; status:

     [echo] PHP:
     [echo]   Version: 5.2.6-2
     [echo]   Include path: .:/usr/share/php:/usr/share/pear
     [echo]
     [echo] Phing:
     [echo]   Version: Phing version 2.3.1RC1
     [echo]
     [echo] Agavi:
     [echo]   Installation directory: /usr/share/php/agavi
     [echo]   Version: 1.0.0-beta1
     [echo]   URL: http://www.agavi.org
     [echo]
     [echo] Project:
     [echo]   (not found)
     [echo]
     [echo] For a list of possible build targets, call this script with the -l argument.
</screen>
(Note
    that version information may differ slightly.) If you are getting errors
    instead, Agavi isn't installed or configured correctly. Since this often
    happens in broken and mishandled PHP installations, feel free to bug some
    other Agavi developers about it (see (getting help) for more
    details).</p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
