<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="introduction-to-agavi">
  <title>Introduction to Agavi</title>

  <body>
    <p>Agavi is a general purpose PHP application framework built around the
    Model-View-Controller architecture originally based on the Mojavi 3 Web
    application framework written by Sean Kerr. It provides a rich toolset
    that solves most of the routine problems in Web application
    development.</p>

    <p>Agavi is designed for serious development. It is not a complete
    website construction kit but rather a skeleton over which you
    build your application. The architecture of Agavi allows
    developers to retain very fine control over their code. Agavi
    itself is written to be extensible, and powerful. Whereas this
    documentation serves as an important resource, many developers are
    comfortable learning from Agavi's source code.</p>

    <p>Agavi strives to leave most implementational choices to the developers.
    Agavi's components are inherently extensible, and the framework itself is
    designed around a XML-based configuration system that provides a very
    flexible environment. For you — as a developer — this architectural style
    means that you are required to perform less hacking (or, in most cases,
    none at all!) at the framework level and therefore have more time to get
    your application written.</p>

    <p>The framework works for almost all kinds of applications but
    excels most in large codebases, long-term projects, extreme cases
    of integration and other special situations.</p>
  </body>
</topic>
