<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic-1">
  <title>Introduction</title>

  <body>
    <section><title>About This Guide</title> <p>This guide provides you with
    enough information to be able to create basic applications within Agavi
    and shows you the fundamental architecture by examining various aspects of
    Agavi along the way. This guide does not attempt to cover the API docs,
    instead they are located <xref format="html"
    href="http://agavi.org/apidocs" scope="external">here</xref></p> <p>This
    guide is intended to be valid for the 1.0 and all minor versions of Agavi.
    Please note that beta versions and release candidates may differ at
    certain points.</p> <p>During this guide, we will cover the complete
    development cycle of a PHP blog engine, from a basic skeleton application
    to a working and themed implementation. It is broken down into stages:
    each chapter involves the creation of a partial implementation, so you can
    see the blog software in various stages of development and make
    comparisons. The stages are available as tarballs.</p> <note>This guide
    has been written for developers whom have experience in creating web
    applications. This guide does not provide detailed discussions about the
    Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern and its associated implications,
    benefits, and disadvantages. There is a certain of level of basic
    knowledge one must poses in order to understand the power of a production
    framework. Agavi is not complicated, but it is rather vast. If you are new
    to web application development, you should first start by trying to
    understand the concept of MVC application design and the HTTP
    standard.</note></section>

    <section><title>Resources</title> <p> There are completed example files
    available for the sections of this guide, you can either download them now
    or at the end of each section.</p><p><ul
        id="ul_a461d85c-bed6-4e6f-8dc8-7c10df240b51">
        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/resources/resources.tgz"
        scope="external">Resources
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/resources/resources.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage1.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 1
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage1.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage2.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 2
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage2.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage3.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 3
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage3.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage4.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 4
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage4.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage5.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 5
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage5.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage6.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 6
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage6.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage7.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 7
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage7.tgz)</xref></li>

        <li><xref format="tgz"
        href="http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage8.tgz"
        scope="external">Stage 8
        (http://www.agavi.org/guide/stages/stage8.tgz)</xref></li>
      </ul> </p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
