<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
	  "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="bloggie-stage3-skinning">
  <title>Styling Bloggie with templates</title>
  <body>
    <p>A basic HTML template consists of a header, a footer and a
      stylesheet. Typical PHP applications include header and footer
      template files individually. Agavi has a better way of doing
      things through use of its layered output facility.</p>

    <p>So far we've only seen Views that output the complete web page
      and every template we used contained the full HTML header and
      footer. Obviously, this is no way to maintain templates in a
      serious application. To dress Bloggie in a new visual layout,
      we'll rip out the old static templates and replace them with a
      new skin that'll be applied to the future enhancements as
      well.</p>
    <p>
      To skin Bloggie, we'll need a number of things: the design
      templates themselves, some changes to Bloggie configuration, and
      adjustment of the current templates to the new conventions. In
      the following sections, we'll see how to do just that.
    </p>
    <note type="tip">
      In general, dressing up the application after it's been
      developed is a tedious and error prone procedure even though
      Agavi makes it significantly easier. Going backwards to undo
      previous work is a tedious waste of time and its best to
      prepare everything beforehand.
    </note>
    <section>
      <title>Notes on templates</title> 
      <p>
	The end result of the manipulations in this chapter is the "stage
      3" Bloggie application. It uses the open source Blue Sky template by Arcsin, which can be obtained
	from the <filepath>bluesky/</filepath> directory of this tutorial.<!-- XXX -->
      </p>
      <p>Note that Bloggie's administrative section of our "stage 3"
      application (contained wholly in the Admin module) uses a
      different set of templates to show off a different skin in the
      same application. The dressing procedure for the Admin module is
      very similar and so isn't described in this tutorial.</p>
      </section>
    </body>
</topic>
