<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/topic.dtd">
<topic id="creating-agavi-project">
  <title>Creating an Agavi project</title>

  <body>
    <p>Once Agavi is installed on your system, you can begin using the project
    configuration system to manage your projects. This system can be accessed
    using the <filepath><cmdname>agavi</cmdname></filepath> shell script.</p>

    <section><title>Creating Bloggie</title><p>This means that you are ready
    to create the structure for your new blog application, affectionately
    called "Bloggie" (feel free to give it a less cuddly name if you can't
    stand it; the developers recommend "Incredible Scorpion-Powered Blog
    Application of Doom").</p><p>To create a project, first create an empty
    directory and enter it. Then invoke <userinput>agavi project</userinput>
    (some of the prompts may seem confusing at first—don't worry, you will
    have a chance to explore their meaning in more depth after your project is
    created):</p><p><screen>applications$ <userinput>mkdir bloggie</userinput>
applications$ <userinput>cd bloggie</userinput>
bloggie$ <userinput>agavi project</userinput>

Project base directory [/srv/applications/bloggie]:

Project name [New Agavi Project]: <userinput>Bloggie</userinput>
Project prefix (used, for example, in the project base action) [Bloggiedemo]: <userinput>Blog</userinput>
Default template extension [php]:

Document-root relative path to the Agavi script [/]:

Space-separated list of modules to create for Agavi Blog Demo [Default]: <userinput>Public Admin</userinput>

Space-separated list of actions to create for Public: <userinput>Index ShowPost</userinput>

Space-separated list of views to create for Index [Success]:

Space-separated list of views to create for ShowPost [Success]:

Space-separated list of actions to create for Admin:

Module for default system action [Public]:

Action for default system action [Index]:

Module for error_404 system action [Public]: 

Module for unavailable system action [Public]:

Module for module_disabled system action [Public]:

Module for secure system action [Public]: <userinput>Admin</userinput>

Module for login system action [Admin]:</screen>Congratulations! You have now
    created a brand new Agavi application.</p><p>You now have a project with
    two Modules: Public and Admin. In the Public Module, you have two Actions:
    Index and ShowPost. The Index action will serve as the front page for your
    blog. The ShowPost action will implement a page for showing a specific
    blog post.</p><p><note>The Admin module is empty for now. When security
    features are covered, you will create its Actions.</note></p><p>When Agavi
    creates a project, it includes some skeleton classes from which your
    actions, views and models inherit. The project prefix parameter requested
    from you during the project creation is the prefix that will be prepended
    to the name of the base classes. Actions, Views and Models are PHP
    classes. They are not inherited directly from Agavi classes, but from
    these base project-specific classes (which in turn inherit from Agavi
    classes directly). This is done so that you can add functionality to all
    Actions, Views, and Models later without having to edit your application's
    or Agavi's source code. The base classes are located in
    <filepath>app/lib/action/</filepath>, <filepath>app/lib/view/</filepath>
    and <filepath>app/lib/model/</filepath>.</p><p>The template extension
    parameter is required to help Agavi configure the default settings for
    your application's output rendering. The default value is sufficient for
    our application.</p><p><note type="tip">The template extension parameter
    value does not select a templating system; it merely tells the project
    configuration script about the default template extension, which is used
    when you create a new template.</note></p></section>
  </body>
</topic>
