<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="models">
  <title>Models</title>
  <conbody>
    <section id="what-are-models">
      <title>What are Models?</title>
      <p>Models are classes that contain your application logic. They
      access databases, send e-mails, render images, converse with
      captcha libraries and facilitate the processing of any other
      data that an application needs. Models are completely
      disconnected from the user interface of your applications, and
      Agavi never interacts with them directly.</p>
      <p>Actions manipulate your Models using outside data to perform
      changes to your application state. Views question the Models for
      relevant data and display it.</p>
      <p>When you remove the user interface layer (Actions and Views)
      all that remains is Models — your application expressed as an
      API. When your application is available as an API, you can write
      automated tests to make sure it doesn't break throughout its
      development.</p>
      <p>A newly created Agavi Model is a blank class file. You fill
      it with code that is specific to your situation and the Model
      you're creating.</p>

      <note type="tip">You should often revisit your Model APIs to make sure the interfaces
    don't intrude into each other's areas of concern. An automated
    documentation tool helps tremendously when executed against the Models of
      your application.</note>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>