<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="slots">
  <title>Slots</title>
  <conbody>
    <section id="what-are-slots">
      <title>What are Slots?</title>
      
    <p>Slots are named locations on a template Layer which store
    Actions. When the Layer is rendered, every action in its slots is
    executed and its output is made available to the template. In
    other words, slots allow you to embed output of Actions into other
    Actions. Together with Agavi output types and layout management,
    slots allow your application to compose output in any conceivable
    way.</p>

    <p>A View can load slots from the output type configuration using
    the normal <apiname>loadLayout</apiname>() method, or compose the
    configuration on the fly dynamically if such need
    arises. Typically, a slotted View would only use a single Layer
    for its own output, skipping the decoration that's needed around
    the normal Action output.</p>

    <note type="tip">You should use a
    View's <apiname>createSlotContainer()</apiname>. This method sets
    an attribute called "is_slot" on the Execution Container that it
    creates. This also happens for slots which are loaded from the
    layout configuration. The View can then check the flag to see
    whether it is being executed in slot mode or not.</note>
    </section>
    <example>
      <p>Configuring a View to be used as a slot in <filepath>output_types.xml</filepath>:</p>
      <ul>
  <li><filepath>output_types.xml</filepath>:
  <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example1" class="xml"/>
  </li>
  <li>View's <apiname>executeHtml</apiname>():
    <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example2" class="php"/>
  </li>
  </ul>
    </example>
    <example>
      <p>Using a slot:</p>
      <ul>
  <li><filepath>output_types.xml</filepath>: <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example3" class="xml"/></li>
  <li>View: <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example4" class="xml"/></li>
  <li>Template: <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example5" class="xml"/></li>
      </ul>
    </example>
    <example><p>Using the slot API to create slots on the fly (<filepath>output_types.xml</filepath> layouts aren't used):</p>
      <ul>
  <li>View: <codeblock conref="../examples/slots.dita#concepts-slots-example6"/></li>
      </ul>
    </example>
    
  </conbody>
</concept>
