<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
"http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd">
<concept id="basics-exception-templates">
  <title>Exception Templates</title>

  <conbody>
    <p>Exception templates are rendered when an unhandled exception occurs
    during the request processing. Exception templates can be configured in
    <filepath>app/config/settings.xml</filepath> and overwritten in
    <filepath>app/config/output_types.xml</filepath>. The configuration in
    settings.xml aims at setting up a reasonable default and is used if no
    configuration can be loaded from output_types.xml. This can happen in a
    variety of cases:</p>

    <ul>
      <li>The error occurs before the configuration from output_types.xml is
      loaded, i.e. during the framework bootstrap.</li>

      <li>There is no specific configuration for the active output type in
      output_type.xml</li>
    </ul>

    <section><title>Configuration in settings.xml</title><p>The configration
    in settings.xml uses a special &lt;exception_templates&gt; block. Each
    entry can contain a context name and must specify a valid path to an
    exception template. The entry with an empty name is used as default for
    all contexts.</p><codeblock outputclass="xml">&lt;exception_templates&gt;
	&lt;exception_template&gt;%core.agavi_dir%/exception/templates/shiny.php&lt;/exception_template&gt;
	&lt;exception_template context="console"&gt;%core.agavi_dir%/exception/templates/plaintext.php&lt;/exception_template&gt;
&lt;/exception_templates&gt;</codeblock><note type="caution">While the shiny
    exception template provides a beautiful stacktrace and is very useful for
    debugging we strictly recommend against using it in production. Design
    your own error template an log the error instead of displaying it to the
    user.</note></section>

    <section><title>Configuration in output_types.xml</title><p>The
    &lt;output_type&gt; tag can have an optional exception_template attribute.
    It contains the path to the template to use for this specific output type.
    The value supersedes any value from settings.xml.</p></section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
